all right so I mentioned at the end of
the last video that we've got a much
more efficient implementation of the get
D method but we can improve it a lot
further and what we're going to do is
we're going to employ something called
the view Hold'em pattern to do that now
looking at this I get view code you can
see we're using find view by ID to get a
reference to each of the widgets in the
view and we're doing that every time you
know even when we're reusing of you we
still have to find the individual text
widgets in order to change their text
now find view by ID is a really costly
operation it takes a while to go through
the view searching for the correct
widget you know it is necessary to do
that a lot of the time but here we're
reusing views aren't we which means that
we're calling find view by D to find the
widgets in a view that we've already
searched last time we used it
now the widgets haven't changed since
the last time so it makes sense to store
those references somewhere and use the
stored references to the textview
widgets rather than searching for them
every time so that's what the view
holder pattern does and it's called the
view holder pattern because it uses a
small class to hold the views that we
found the last time so we're going to
create a class that has a field for each
of the widgets that we need to find now
the only other thing we need is some way
to store the instances of this class and
view objects have a tag field that can
be used for all that purpose so we'll
the type of the coder then explain what
it's doing but first we want to create a
class called view holder now this could
be called anything but the usual name is
view holder now because it's such a
small class I'm gonna put it at the
start of file so I'm gonna open up our
project again go into feed adapter well
I was actually there anyway but I can go
to the top there and we're going to put
it above the feed adapter class
definition so I put it above that so
it's gonna be class
if you hold up and notice when I start
typing me that the icon for feed adapter
in the project pane so it's a common
class icon CK basically so our class
view holder parentheses of UV : view
parentheses and we'll go through and it
will padded our curly braces we're going
to type Val TV name : text view equals v
dot v view by ID r dot ID dot TV name
next one val TV artist : it's also
textview as you know and that's equal to
V dot find my ID r dot ID dot TV artist
and the last one is Val TV summary :
textview equals lead up on D by ID r dot
ID dot TV summary the other thing I'll
do is I'm going to leave two Alliance or
two blank lines between the classes now
that's actually a Python convention but
I think it does help to separate them so
it's now by convention I'm eating for
Kotlin until someone publishes the
Kotlin style guide alright so the view
holder class is very basic it just uses
finally my ID to find the widgets in the
view V and stores them in its fields now
I'm doing this slightly different two
examples you'll find out there so let's
see what google have to say about the
view holder pattern and then going to
just open a browser let's paste that in
now the current examples are in Java but
we can see that the view holder is just
a basic class holding the references to
the fields that we want to update now
the first paragraph explains the reasons
for it calling following the Eid
frequently can slow down performance you
can see that over here now Google's
example puts the call to find view my ID
in the get view method whereas otherwise
put them in the view holder class now in
Java I don't think it made any
difference either way but in Kotlin The
Situation's slightly different so
looking at the Java code that calls for
invivo ad for each of the widgets
scroll down there they were all
initialized to null in the viewholder
class so if you want to do it that way
in Kotlin we're going to have to use the
nullable textview typed for our text
views now the way i'm suggesting of
voids that the properties are
initialized at the time they're created
and we can use the non null textview
type now we don't like nullable types in
Kotlin so I'm sticking with this way of
doing it
alright so back to the code I'm just
going to close it for now and we'll
update that later cuz I've showed you
how to do that in a previous video all
right so I'm going to change the getview
method to use the view holder then go
through how it all works so I'm going to
go down to the get view method we're
going to start by deleting these three
lines actually these three lines up here
and we're deleting them because we don't
need them anymore well actually what
I'll do is I'll just comment them out
for now but we don't need them anymore
with this approach we're about to take
so what we want to do is create a new
view holder object if we're having to
create a new view so we've got this code
here up above
if convert view equals null then we've
got the log here get to your called with
no convert view that's where we're
creating a new view so what we're going
to do is we view equals inflate inflate
have done inflate that's still correct
what we're going to do after that is
we're going to type view holder equals
you hold a parenthesis of you I'm gonna
do view tag it was a view holder then
we'll clear up that error in a minute
now otherwise if we've been past of you
to reuse then we're going to retrieve
the view holder from it's tagged with
the else so we've got the view equals
convert view which is still correct but
then we're going to do the view holder
equals you not tagged s view holder okay
all right so we've got this error and
that's because we need to declare our
view holder
so let's actually do that and that's
going to be at the stand of the method
under the valve you so I'm going to put
a bell
you hold off : you hold up and that
clears up most of those errors so all
that's left now is to put the text into
the view holders properties instead of
using the variables that we've deleted
so let's go ahead and modify those lines
the code down lies 63-62
bearing on one that lines 62 was
commented out when we were testing in a
previous video so I'm going to uncomment
that we're gonna change this though
instead of TV named text equals current
app dot name we're gonna use the view
holder instead
so we'll put view holder dot in front of
that and do that for all three lines all
right so what are we basically down here
now
well if convertview is no we're doing
that test on line 40 we inflate a new
viewers before and also what we're doing
then is creating a new view holder
object and storing it in the views tag
using the set tag method essentially
that's what we're doing anyway with the
view tag equals our view holder now if
we have been given back an existing view
by the ListView then we're retrieving
view holder from its tag using the get
tag method or in this case we're just
accessing the property view dot tag as
view however we're signing that or
placing that into our view holder our
variable now the tag is an object so we
have to cast it to a view holder but we
know it'll be a view holder because we
put it there now the android framework
doesn't use that tag field so we can be
sure that whenever we store in it won't
be touched by Android that's this ask
you how old I was when we're actually
casting it and we're then retrieving the
application record from the list as
before and setting its values to the
widgets that are stored in the view
holder and also we're doing the other
lines 58 360 so for view find V by IDs
now only called when a new view has to
be inflated otherwise the widgets have
already been found and references to
them are stored in the view holder now
run this out
which I'm going to do now you probably
won't notice much in the way performance
in other words import improvement in
speed and that's because the new
emulators are actually very fast once
they're started up now you may not
notice any speed improvements on a
modern Android device with this app
either but when you come to add
animations in this fuse though that's
when you start to see the smoothest
scrolling that this approach allows so
the improvement in the smoothness of the
scrolling can be readily it can be
really evident on older devices as well
you can see that though we still got
working down with as of the summary
again now you can see it's working quite
nicely there's no perceivable delay
there but again you'd be more noticeable
on an older Android device or if you're
starting to use animations in the
ListView frenum for animating various
sub views all right now just have a look
at the logcat
I wanna click on the logcat to open that
up then we'll go back to our code again
that's our scroll we can see the convert
views being used
get view provider to convert view we get
movies created to start with until the
display fills up but after that we're
reusing the old views that the ListView
passes back to get you alright so that's
how improved adapter it now uses much
less memory and works more efficiently
than the first version now when you're
creating your own adapters reuse the
views that you give them back and use
the view holder pattern to improve the
responsiveness of your app now although
google recommend the view holder pattern
they didn't enforce its use with the
ListView then when we come back to look
at the new recycler view widget you'll
see that the new horror pattern is
enforced with that all right so I'm
gonna reformat this code I'll close down
the logcat first and what I'm also going
to do is change the I'll go back to main
activity I'm going to change the limit
that was set to 200 back to 10 just in
case app or events 200 items for being
accessed in the future now if you want
to learn more about list views in a debt
then the talks from Google i/o are
available on YouTube and these are
highly recommended and said technical
talks presented by the people who create
the Android code now each year since
2008 Google live run Google i/o to
present the new technologies that
they've created and it's largely devoted
to technical presentations covering
things like Android and Chrome and is a
great way to learn about what Google
have planned for the future as well as
getting information on their current
technologies from the programmers who
create them and there's actually a talk
on list views and adapters from the 2010
Google i/o I'm just going to give you a
link there and this will be in the
resources section very useful video to
check out and have a look at
and I won't actually start playing it
now but you can see that it's obviously
a popular video and there's a lot of
people who subscribe to this channel so
very much worthwhile watching this video
to understand a lot more about list
views and adapters alright so in the
next video we're going to add a menu to
the app so that we can choose from a
selection of feeds rather than just
displaying the same one see you in the
next video